
Overview
********


What's Blend4Web
================

Blend4Web is a web-oriented 3D engine - a software framework for
authoring and interactive rendering of three-dimensional graphics and
audio in browsers.

The platform is intended for visualizations, presentations, online-
shops, games and other rich internet applications.

The Blend4Web framework is integrated tightly with Blender - a 3D
modeling and animation tool (hence the name). The content is rendered
by means of WebGL and other browser technologies, without the use of
plugins.

Technically Blend4Web is a library for web pages, a Blender addon and
some tools for debugging and optimization.

The Blend4Web 3D engine has been developed by Triumph LLC employees
since 2010. The engine was first released on March 28 2014.


About Engines
=============

An engine is a separate part of software code which is used by
external applications for implementing the required functionality.

Engine examples are: site engine, blog engine, online shop engine,
wiki engine, search egine, game engine etc. The economical reason for
the existance of software engines is multiple usage of the same
functionality. For example developers may create relatively cheap
online shops or games using one or another engine.


Graphics Engine, Game Engine
============================

A graphics engine performs special functions in displaying graphics.
It is an intermediary between:

   * high-level application part (game logic, business logic) and

   * low-level system part (for example, the graphics library WebGL
     and underlying drivers).

A graphics engine may be combined with the sound system, the physics
engine, the artificial intelligence system, the networking system and
the scene and logic editors producing a **three-dimensional engine** -
an integrated environment for authoring 3D applications.


What's WebGL
============

WebGL (Web Graphics Library) is one of the modern browser technologies
which allows authoring 3D graphics applications. In other words WebGL
is "3D in a browser".


WebGL Browsers Support
======================

At the moment WebGL is supported in to a varying degree by all
browsers.


Full Support
------------

* Chrome

* Yandex Browser

* Firefox

* Opera

* Safari 8+


Experimental Support
--------------------

* Internet Explorer 11


Mobile Platforms
----------------

* Android (on modern devices)

* BlackBerry

* Firefox OS

* iOS 8

* Tizen

* Ubuntu Touch

* WebOS


Advantages of WebGL
===================

* works in browsers without installing additional software (plugins)

* crossplatform, intended for all desktop and embedded systems

* open standard, does not require licensing fees

* supported by the leading participants of the IT market (Google,
  Apple, Microsoft, Nvidia, Samsung, Adobe and others)

* based on OpenGL which is familiar to developers

* can be integrated with other browser technologies


What's Blender
==============

Blender is a popular piece of software for 3D modeling and animation
and is free and open source. Models and scenes which are created in
this software can be displayed, for example, by means of a three-
dimensional engine on a web page.


3D Modeling
===========

Authoring graphics resources requires trained specialists - 3D
artists.

A typical workflow may include the following stages:

* choosing photos and/or creating concepts and sketches (views from
  the front - from the side - from the above) of the future model or
  scene

* modeling - a 3D model consisting of polygons is created

* UV mapping - the model is unwrapped for further overlaying of
  textures (flat images)

* texturing - textures are overlayed on the 3D model

* materials setup - materials are assigned for different parts of
  the model and tuned (for example, a wooden door with a metal handle)

* rigging - the controlling elements ("skeletal bones") are attached
  to the model to animate it

* animation - the model is set in motion to visualize actions for
  example - of characters

* export - can be performed on any stage to display the 3D model in
  its final form, for example, on a web page

In addition, realism improving techniques are often used in the
process of creating 3D models which require additional stages:

* creating a high-poly model - a detailed version of the model is
  created

* "baking" of a normal map - details from the high-poly model are
  transferred to the main model in the form of a special texture
  (normal map)

* creating a specular map - different reflection color and ratio are
  assigned to different model parts

* baking environment maps - is performed to visualize the
  surrounding environment reflection on the model surface

* setting up the camera and the light sources on the scene

* physical simulation parameters setup - particles, cloth

The time required to author 3D models and animation depends on their
complexity and required quality and may vary from 1-2 days (for
example a game item) to 1-2 weeks (for example a detailed aircraft
model) and even to several months (realistic characters with clothing,
hair, face sets, with animation and figure parameters setup).


Browser Technologies
====================

Browser is a program for viewing Internet content. At the dawn of
Internet technologies the browser's role was to view text pages with
the inclusion of static images ("hyper-text"). Modern browsers are
full-scale platforms for multimedia web applications.

Among the already implemented and promising browser features which are
used in Blend4Web the following technologies can be noted:

* three-dimensional graphics, WebGL

* Typed Array

* Timing control for script-based animations (requestAnimationFrame)

* two-dimensional graphics, HTML Canvas 2D Context

* sound processing, Web Audio API

* binary data loading, XMLHttpRequest Level 2

* Fullscreen

* Pointer Lock

* multithreading, Web Workers

* Device Orientation

Other promising technologies:

* Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)

* safe file access, File API, File API: Directories and System

* real-time communication between browsers, WebRTC

* persistent network connection, The WebSocket API

* Gamepad


Interactive Graphics
====================

Applied to computer graphics the term "interactive" means that the
user can interact with a constantly changing image. For example the
user can change the view direction in a 3D scene, move the objects,
trigger animation and carry out other actions normally associated with
computer games.

Graphics interactivity is achieved by utilizing a frequent change of
images, so the user action (for example a mouse movement or the
pressing of a key) between frames leads to the image changing in the
next frame. Images must replace each other so frequently that the
human eye could not recognize them individually (at least 30 frames
per second).

"Real-time graphics" or "real-time rendering" are also similar in
meaning to the term.


Video Cards and Drivers
=======================

Interactive graphics is provided by a special-purpose hardware part of
modern computers so called graphics processor which can be implemeted
as a discrete device (video card) or as a part of the central
processing unit.

Main graphics processors vendors for desktop computers are:  - NVidia
(GeForce, Quadro), AMD (Radeon), Intel (HD), for embedded devices -
ARM (Mali), PowerVR (SGX), Nvidia (Tegra), Qualcomm (Adreno) (trade
marks are specified in brackets).

Program access to graphics processor resources is carried out via an
intermediate program called driver. It's important for the correct
working of interactive graphics programs to have drivers of the latest
version in the system. Drivers can be installed (or upgraded) from
corresponding websites of graphics processors vendors. See detailed
info in the section WebGL Failed to Init.
