
Textures
********

Textures are hand-made or procedurally generated images that can be
applied to the model surfaces to add more detail. As a rule, the image
pixels are assigned to the 3D surface points using texture mapping.
For this reason they sometimes are referred to as maps.

Usually the textures are placed into material texture slots. They can
be also used for particle systems parametrization and for creating the
skydome.


Texture Types
=============

The "Type" drop-down menu (for selecting texture type) is located
under the "Textures" tab. The engine supports the following texture
types:

1. "Image or Movie"

      * diffuse map

      * specular map, this can also be packed into the alpha channel
        of a diffuse texture

      * normal map

      * height map; this must be packed into the alpha channel of a
        normal map; it is used for visualization of relief surfaces
        (parallax mapping).

      * stencil map

      * video texture

2. "Environment Map"

      * mirror map

      * skydome texture

      * used for implementation of an environment lighting method

3. "None"

      * applied to the Blender's default scene cube. It is also used
        for rendering a scene to texture and for rendering canvas
        textures.

4. "Blend", gradient

      * is used in particle systems


Generic Settings
================

*Dimensions*
   Bitmap dimensions for image textures (image width and height in
   pixels) should be a 2^N number, i.e. 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256,
   512, 1024, 2048, 4096 px. Using textures with other dimensions (so-
   called NPOT) is supported but is not recommended. Dimensions should
   be at least 4 pixels for the correct texture compression. Normally
   square images are used (e.g. 512 x 512 px), however rectangular
   ones can be used too (e.g. 4 x 128 px). Using images bigger than
   2048 px is not recommended.

*Image Mapping > Extension*
   Texture coordinates interpretation mode (Wrap Mode in WebGL). This
   is available for "Image or Movie" texture type. In case of "Repeat"
   value the engine sets the "REPEAT" mode for the texture. In this
   case the integer part of the texture coordinates is ignored and the
   fractional part is used. In all other cases (for example "Extend")
   the engine sets the "CLAMP_TO_EDGE" mode. In this case the texture
   coordinates are limited by the [0, 1] segment. The default value is
   "Repeat".

*Mapping > Coordinates*
   Texture coordinates type. Supported types are "UV" (use UV map),
   "Normal" (use direction at the camera; available only for diffuse
   maps; used for the creation of **material capture**, **matcap**)
   and "Generated". The default value is "Generated".

*Mapping > Size*
   Scaling the UV map along respective axes. The default values are
   1.0.

*Export Options > Do Not Export*
   Do not export the texture.

*Export Options > Disable Compression*
   Disable texture compression for this texture. Used in cases when
   texture compression deteriorates the image quality.For example it's
   recommended to disable compression for mask textures used to mix
   different parts of materials.

*Export Options > Shore Distance Map* is used in outdoor rendering

*Export Options > Anisotropic Filtering*
   Anisotropic filtering factor for the individual texture. It has
   priority over the similar parameter for the scene. The default
   value is "DEFAULT" (i.e. use the scene settings).

*Water Foam*
   The foam texture. Used by the water rendering material.

Note: Texture compression is disabled for textures used as normal
  maps.


Diffuse Map
===========

A diffuse map is used for specifying scattered light distribution (the
Lambert model).


Activation
----------

Enable the "Diffuse > Color" checkbox on the "Textures > Influence"
panel.


Additional Settings
-------------------

*Influence > Diffuse > Color*
   Influence of the texture on the diffuse color. The default value is
   1.0.

*Influence > Blend*
   The type of the interaction with the material color ("Material >
   Diffuse > Color"), or with the vertex color if the "Vertex Color
   Paint" checkbox is enabled. The following types are supported:
   "Mix" (mixes with the color), "Multiply" (multiplies by the color).
   The default value is "Mix".


Specular Map
============

The specular map is used for specifying the reflected light color
distribution (the Phong model).


Activation
----------

Enable the "Specular > Color" checkbox on the "Textures > Influence"
panel.


Additional Settings
-------------------

*Influence > Specular > Color*
   The influence of the texture on the reflected light color. The
   default value is 1.0.

*Influence > Blend*
   The type of interaction with the reflected light color of the
   material ("Material > Specular > Color"). "Mix" (mixes with the
   color) is the only supported type. The default value is "Mix".

The specular map can be packed to the alpha channel of a diffuse
texture for optimization purposes. In such case it is required for the
texture to enable the "Diffuse > Color" and "Specular > Color"
checkboxes simultaneously. The color range is limited by gray tints.


Normal Map
==========

A normal map is used for specifying the distribution of surface
normals (perpendiculars) with the purpose of the relief detalization.
The information about the normals should be stored in the texture
space of coordinates. Normal maps baked in the object space of
coordinates are not supported.


Activation
----------

Enable the "Geometry > Normal" checkbox on the "Textures > Influence"
panel.


Additional Settings
-------------------

*Influence > Geometry > Normal*
   Normal map influence on the resulting normals calculation. The
   default value is 1.0.


Height Map. Parallax Mapping
============================

A height map contains information about the distribution of relative
relief heights. The higher the surface level is, the brighter is its
color. A height map combined with a normal map is required for the
implementation of relief surface effect (parallax mapping). A height
map should be present in the alpha channel of a normal map.


Activation
----------

For the normal map enable the "Parallax" panel in addition to the
"Geometry > Normal" checkbox.


Additional Settings
-------------------

*Parallax > Parallax Scale*
   Influence factor for the relief surface effect. The default value
   is 0.03.

*Parallax > Parallax Steps*
   The number of iterations for the relief surface calculations.
   Bigger value leads to better quality but is more computationaly
   expensive.

*Parallax > Parallax LOD distance*
   Distance at which the parallax effect is observed.

[image]




Stencil Map
===========

The special purpose texture (colorful or grayscale) contains
information about the distribution of other texture surfaces.


Activation
----------

1. In case of node materials a stencil map should be used in the
   corresponding node structure.

2. In case of generic materials a stencil map should be located in
   a texture slot between two mixed diffuse textures. A stencil map
   requires to set both the "RGB to Intensity" and the "Stencil"
   checkboxes on the "Textures > Influence" panel.


Additional Settings
-------------------

In the case of generic materials one of the mixed diffuse textures can
have the "Normal" ("matcap") texture coordinates type.


Limitations
-----------

In case of generic materials the engine only interprets the red
channel of a stencil map. Specular maps or normal maps (if any) are
not being mixed. The "Mapping > Size" setting is extracted from the
first texture and is applied to all remaining textures.


Example
-------

The apple model material has the following textures: a normal map, a
diffuse texture with a specular map in its alpha channel, a stencil
map, a diffuse "matcap" map, an environment map.

[image]


 [image]




Video Textures
==============

A video can be used as a texture if "Image or Movie" texture type is
selected. Also, if the "Scene > NLA" is enabled the video textures
playback is possible.

Note: Video textures support playing back just video tracks. Audio
  tracks should be played back by using a "SPEAKER" object.


Supported formats (containers):
-------------------------------

* webm, VP8 codec (Chrome, Firefox)

* m4v, H.264 codec (Chrome, Safari, IE)

* ogv, Theora codec (Chrome, Firefox)

We recommend to use *WebM* as a basic format. It is an open standard
supported by the majority of browsers and offers good picture quality.

Note: Files saved in mp4 and ogg formats have different extensions
  for audio and video data: *.mp4* and *.ogg* extensions are used for
  sounds, *.m4v* and *.ogv* - for video.

Converting resources between different formats is described in the
corresponding section.


Setting up the Texture
----------------------

The following settings are available for video textures on the
"Texture > Image" panel:

*Image > Frames*
   Length of the played fragment in frames.

*Image > Start*
   Video playback delay (in frames), applicable for non-linear
   animation ("Scene > NLA" option).

*Image > Offset*
   The number of the frame from which the video playback starts.

*Image > Auto Refresh*
   Play back the video immediately after loading is complete. Ignored
   for non-linear animation - other parameters are applicable for
   video playback.

*Image > Cyclic*
   Start video playback afresh each time it finishes.

[image]



The video playback rate can be increased. To do this set "Scene >
Dimensions > Frame rate" to a value which is different from the FPS
value for the videos. Video playback rate is increased proportionally
to the ratio of the scene's FPS and the video's FPS.

[image]


Specifics of Mobile Devices
---------------------------

The peculiarities for mobile devices are as follows:

1. Normal operation of video textures on iPhones is not possible
   because these devices play back videos via the standard iOS video
   player. For these devices you need to convert your videos to
   special ".seq" format by using our converter.

2. some devices only support playing back only one video file.

3. stable operation is not garanteed if the "Offset" value is not
   zero.

4. not all devices support changing the video playback rate.

5. iPad and iPhone do not provide the possibility to control the
   audio volume for video, and so the audio track should be removed
   from the video before the file is added to Blender.


Environment Map
===============

An environment map can be used as a mirror map, as a static sky
texture (skydome) and also for implementation of an environment
lighting method.

The engine considers it as a cube texture. Environment map bitmaps
should contain 6 projected environment images, packed in 2 rows 3
pieces in each (a Blender format). Bitmap dimensions for each image
should follow the 2^N rule (512, 1024 etc).

It is recommended to use the lossless format (PNG) in order to avoid
seams.

[image]


Making Environment Maps
-----------------------

Blender has an option for baking a scene into an environment map. To
do this:

1. Create a scene for baking.

2. Add an empty object in the supposed point of view ("Add >
   Empty").

3. Go to the "World" tab then to the "Textures" tab and create a
   new texture with the "Environment Map" type.

4. On the "Environment Map" panel select the "Static" source, then
   select the empty object in the "Viewport Object" field, then set
   the 2^N dimension (512, 1024 etc).

5. Render the scene by pressing "F12" (a camera is required).

6. Save the environment map into a file.

[image]


 [image]


Mirror Map
==========

A mirror map is used to visualize the surface reflection. This is an
environment map.


Activation
----------

Select the "Environment Map" texture type ("Type"). Enable the
"Shading > Mirror" checkbox on the "Textures > Influence" panel.


Additional Settings
-------------------

*Influence > Shading > Mirror*
   The degree to which the mirror map affects the reflection. The
   default value is 1.0.

See also: Static reflection.


Skydome
=======

A skydome is used to visualize an infinitely far environment (for
example the sky). This is an environment map.

Can be also used to implement one of the environment lighting methods.


Activation
----------

Create a world texture of "Environment Map" type. Select the "Export
Options > Sky Texture Usage > SKYDOME" option. Enable "World > Render
Sky" under the "World" tab.

Note: The behavior of the texture is intentionally made as close as
  possible to the Blender internal render. That's why the texture may
  not be displayed upon its default settings. In order to make the
  texture visible, enable the "Influence > Horizon" checkbox on its
  panel and set the "Horizon" value to 1.0.

Note: To imitate environment lighting you can select the "Export
  Options > Sky Texture Usage > ENVIRONMENT_LIGHTING" option. Also,
  you should select the corresponding option in the world settings:
  "Environment Lighting > Sky Texture".To use the world texture both
  for skydome and for environment lighting, select "Export Options >
  Sky Texture Usage > BOTH".

[image]


Additional Settings
-------------------

   The engine also supports parameters from the world texture's
   "Influence" panel which are used for sky rendering. Mixing of the
   world texture with color depends on the "World > Horizon Color" and
   "World > Zenith Color" parameters, as well as on the "Paper Sky",
   "Blend Sky" and "Real Sky" options. All mixing options are
   supported ("Mix", "Add", "Multiply" etc).

[image]

Note: The "Influence" panel parameters only affect the sky
  rendering. They do not affect environment lighting by any means.




Special Texture Types
=====================

In order to use such textures, select "None" type under the "Textures"
tab.

[image]



On the "Textures > Export Options" panel, you can set up properties
for these textures:

*Export Options > Source Type*
   Select texture type: "Scene" - for rendering a 3D scene into the
   texture, "Canvas" - for using <canvas> HTML element and "None" -
   for indicating of its absence.

*Export Options > Source ID*
   The name of the scene which will be rendered into the texture (for
   "Scene"), or ID of the <canvas> HTML element (for "Canvas").

*Export Options > Source Size*
   Texture resolution.

*Export Options > Extension*
   Texture coordinates interpretation mode. Default is "Repeat".

*Export Options > Enable Mipmapping*
   Enable mipmapping for the Canvas texture. Enabled by default.

[image]


3D scene
--------

A 3D scene's real-time rendered image can be used as a texture by an
object from another scene ("main" scene).

1. Create an additional source scene, rename it for convenience,
   create a "World", add the objects wanted, setup the camera view.

2. Set the "None" type for a texture of the target object on the
   main scene, and select the "Scene" type in the "Export Options >
   Source Type" menu. Specify the name of the source scene in the
   "Export Options > Source ID" field. Set the texture size in the
   "Export Options > Source Size" field (in pixels).

[image]



The engine also supports the cyclic rendering of scenes to each other.

   Note: A project should contain at least one scene which is not
     rendered by any other scenes.


Canvas
------

A <canvas> HTML element can be used as a texture. It can be modified
via API.

Set the "None" type for the texture of the target object on the main
scene, and select the "Canvas" type in the "Export Options > Source
Type" menu. Specify the id of the canvas HTML element in the "Export
Options > Source ID" field. Set the texture size in the "Export
Options > Source Size" field (in pixels).
