
Normal Editor
*************


Table of Contents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Normal Editor

  * Main Features of the Normal Editor

  * Interface of the Vertex Normal Editor

  * Activate

  * Show Normals

  * Rotation

  * Split Normals

  * Average Split

  * Restore

  * Tree, Foliage and Face

  * Copy/Paste

  * Copy From Mesh

Editing the selected normals is a pretty easy and effective way to
customize 3d model shading without complicating its geometry.

In some cases, using the normal editor you may achieve the effect
which is similar to the result of using normal maps. At the same
time, editing normals is preferred because it is more computationally
effective and consumes less video memory.

Normal editor workflow example:

   [图片]

Simple geometry shading is to the left, a tree with edited normals is
to the right.

   [图片]

To the left - gates with common shading; at the center - gates with
edited normals; to the right - gates geometry with a wireframe.

   [图片]

To the left - common grass geometry shading; to the right - grass with
edited normals.

   [图片]

To the left - glasses with common shading; to the right - geometry
with edited normals shading.


Main Features of the Normal Editor
==================================

1. native Blender storage is used as a container for edited
   vertices normals directions (it appeared in Blender 2.74);

2. normals editing and shading visualization are processed in "Edit
   Mode" now;

3. all changes are being saved automatically;

4. selected vertex normal rotation can be performed directly in the
   Viewport window with "Shift+Ctrl+R" hotkey, similarly to other
   rotation operations in Blender;

5. edited normals are being exported automatically.


Interface of the Vertex Normal Editor
=====================================

The interface of the normal editor is located on the tools panel
"Blend4Web > Normal Editor". The "Shading: Smooth" mode should be
enabled and "Activate" button should be pressed or "Auto Smooth" flag
should be enabled in the mesh settings, before starting to work with
the editor.

[图片]


Activate
========

The "Activate" button turns on vertex normal editing mode.

You can just press "Activate" button while in "Edit Mode" and start
editing vertex normals. As it is active, object shading and its export
would be processed taking edited vertex normals into account. In other
words, after making some changes, this button should be left active if
you want to see the changes in the Blender Viewport and in the
Blend4Web engine.


Show Normals
============

This button actually duplicates the original Blender's button. It
turns on displaying the normals in the viewport, while the Size field
allows you to set their length.

You just need to push the Show Normals button either on the normal
editor panel or on the Blender's right panel in the Mesh Display
section. You can also set the convenient length of normals by tweaking
the Size.


Rotation
========

Using these instruments you can change direction of the normals. The
"Rotate" function is also available through the "Shift+Ctrl+R"
hotkeys, which allows rotation of vertex normals similarly to Blender.

Select one or more vertices that you want to edit and then rotate
their normals using the visual sphere or specify the direction as
numerical values.

The "Rotate" button provides a more convenient way to manipulate
normals. The rotation is performed in the screen space. Nevertheless,
as with any other rotations in Blender, you can isolate the desired
axis during rotation (by typing "X", "Y" or "Z").


Split Normals
=============

The "Split Normals" mode allows to edit vertex normals separately for
each "face" that form the "vertex". Index allows you to navigate
between the split normals.

Turn on the "Split Normals" mode, select the vertex and change the
direction of its normals. Firstly, the normal which has the zero index
in the queue will be modified. Then, by switching between indexes you
can go to the next normal of this vertex and edit it, then to the next
and so on.


Average Split
=============

The "Average Split" button averages the direction of the vertex
normals which was modified in the "Split Normals" mode.

To combine several split vertex normals into one, in order to obtain
the average direction of these normals, you just need to select the
desired vertex and press the "Average Split" button.


Restore
=======

The "Restore" button restores the original direction of normals for
the selected vertices.

In order to restore the normal's direction to its original (which is
calculated on the basis of face normals), you need to select the
desired vertices and click the Restore button.


Tree, Foliage and Face
======================

The "Tree" button directs the normals of the selected vertices away
from the 3D cursor. The "Foliage" button directs the normals of the
vertices strictly up. The "Face" button directs the normals of the
selected face parallel to the normal of this face.

In order to use the "Tree" function, select the desired vertices and
place the 3D cursor in the desired position. Then click the "Tree"
button so all the selected vertices will turn their direction away
from the cursor, as if they were shot from one point.

The "Foliage" function is very easy to use: just select the vertices
and press the button, so the function will direct their normals
straight up.

In order to direct the normals parallel to the face normal, just
select the desired face and click the "Face" button. The normals of
the vertices which form the face will be directed parallel to the face
normal. This function works only with one selected face at a time.


Copy/Paste
==========

Copies the normal direction from one vertex to another.

Select the vertex you want to copy from and click the "Copy" button.
Then, select the vertex you want to copy to and click the "Paste"
button. You may copy information from one selected vertex to many
different vertices. The buttons are not active in the "Split Mode" and
do not copy data of split vertices.


Copy From Mesh
==============

This function allows you to copy the normals from one object to
another. There are two modes: "Matched Vertices" and "Nearest
Vertices".

The "Matched Vertices" mode copies the normals from the vertices of
one object to another object's vertices only if they have the same
coordinates; the other vertices are ignored. The "Nearest Vertices"
mode copies the normals of the nearest vertices of the source object.

This function works in Blender's object mode. At first, you need to
select the object you need to copy from, then the object you need to
copy to. It is also necessary to select the target object's vertices
to which normals are copied.
